[Safe-transaction-service] Overview and offchain signatures documentation (#235)
safe-global/safe-docs: safe-core-api/safe-transaction-service.md

# Safe Transaction service
## Overview

Safe transaction service keeps track of transactions sent via Safe contracts. It utilizes events (L2 chains) and tracing (L1 chains) mechanisms to index these transactions.

**Key Features:**  

> - [**Blockchain Indexing**]() executed transactions, configuration changes, erc20/721 transfers, onchain confirmations… are automatically indexed from blockchain.

Author: I'll add blockchain indexing in other PR.

> - [**Blockchain Indexing**]() executed transactions, configuration changes, erc20/721 transfers, onchain confirmations… are automatically indexed from blockchain.

Reviewer: Gotcha, thanks! 🙌

- [Gunicorn](https://gunicorn.org/): it is a python WSGI HTTP Server.
- [Celery](https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/): It’s a task queue with focus on real-time processing, while also supporting task scheduling. Safe transaction service currently have a scheduler (to beat periodic tasks), a worker indexer to consume and execute indexing tasks and contracts worker mainly to get contracts metadata.
- [RabbitMq](https://www.rabbitmq.com/): It is is a distributed message broker system used by celery to share the messages between scheduler, workers and django app.
- [PostgreSql](https://www.postgresql.org/): it is an open source object-relational database system.
- [Redis](https://redis.com/): it an open source, in-memory data structure store that can be used as a database, cache, message broker, and streaming engine. It is the cache of safe transaction service.
- [safe-eth-py](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-eth-py) library to interact with Safe and blockchain.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/transaction_service_architecture.png" width="100%" alt="" /></figure>

> ## Offchain transaction signatures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Offchain Transaction Signatures
```

> The transaction service can collect off-chain transaction signatures, allowing the owners to share their signatures between them to reach the required threshold before execute a transaction and spending less gas than on-chain approvals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transaction service can collect offchain transaction signatures, allowing the owners to share their signatures to reach the required threshold before executing a transaction and spending less gas than onchain approvals.
```

> The following endpoints let us to propose a transaction and collect every confirmation (off-chain signatures):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following endpoints let us propose a transaction and collect every confirmation (offchain signatures):
```

> - `POST /v1/safes/{address}/multisig-transactions/` create a new transaction, at least one signature is required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `POST /v1/safes/{address}/multisig-transactions/`: Create a new transaction. At least one signature is required.
```

> - `POST /v1/multisig-transactions/{safe_tx_hash}/confirmations/` add a new confirmation, the `safe_tx_hash` is needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `POST /v1/multisig-transactions/{safe_tx_hash}/confirmations/`: Add a new confirmation. The `safe_tx_hash` is needed.
```

> - `GET /v1/multisig-transactions/{safe_tx_hash}/` return all the multisig-transaction information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `GET /v1/multisig-transactions/{safe_tx_hash}/`: Return all the multisig transaction information.
```

> - `GET /v1/multisig-transactions/{safe_tx_hash}/confirmations/` return the list of all confirmations to a multisig-transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `GET /v1/multisig-transactions/{safe_tx_hash}/confirmations/`: Return the list of all confirmations to a multisig transaction.
```

> The following sequence diagram shows an use case from a Safe shared by Alice and Bob where at least 1 confirmation for each one is required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sequence diagram shows a use case for a Safe shared by Alice and Bob where at least one confirmation for each one is required:
```

``` mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant A as Alice
    participant B as Bob
    A->>+SafeTransactionService: proposeTransaction POST /v1/safes/0x5Afe/multisig-transactions/
    SafeTransactionService-->>-A: Http(201) {Created}
    B->>+SafeTransactionService: GET /v1/safes/0x5Afe/multisig-transactions/?executed=false
    SafeTransactionService-->>-B: Http(200) {..."safeTxHash":"0x5afe0001"}
    B->>+SafeTransactionService: confirmTransaction POST /v1/multisig-transactions/0x5afe0001/confirmations/
    SafeTransactionService->>-B: Http(201) {Created}
```
**What is the safe_tx_hash?**
     

> `safe_tx_hash` is the unique identifier for a safe transaction and is calculated following [EIP-712](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-712) standard:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`safe_tx_hash` is the unique identifier for a Safe transaction and is calculated using the [EIP-712](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-712) standard:  
```

`keccak256(0x19 || 0x1 || domainSeparator || safeTxHashStruct)`  

> where `safeTxHashStruct` is the hashStruct of a safe transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where `safeTxHashStruct` is the hashStruct of a Safe transaction.
```

The following example shows how to get a `safe_tx_hash` with [safe-eth-py](https://pypi.org/project/safe-eth-py/) with the parameter of the next transaction [0x34ae46cf7d884309a438a7e9a3161fa05dfc5068681ac3877a947971af845a18](https://safe-transaction-goerli.safe.global/api/v1/multisig-transactions/0x34ae46cf7d884309a438a7e9a3161fa05dfc5068681ac3877a947971af845a18/)
```python
from gnosis.safe.safe_tx import SafeTx
from gnosis.eth.ethereum_client import EthereumClient
eth_client = EthereumClient("https://rpc.goerli.eth.gateway.fm")
safe_tx = SafeTx(eth_client, "0x4127839cdf4F73d9fC9a2C2861d8d1799e9DF40C", "0xc6b82bA149CFA113f8f48d5E3b1F78e933e16DfD",10000000000000000,"",0,0,0,0,"0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000","0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000", safe_nonce=206)
print(safe_tx.safe_tx_hash.hex())
```
**Output**
``` 
0x34ae46cf7d884309a438a7e9a3161fa05dfc5068681ac3877a947971af845a18
```

> ## Offchain messages 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Offchain Messages 
```

> Safe transaction service is able to collect the necessary offchain signatures to confirm a message  following [EIP1271](https://ethereum.org/pt/developers/tutorials/eip-1271-smart-contract-signatures/#example-eip-1271-implementation-safe).    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Safe transaction service can collect the necessary offchain signatures to confirm a message using [EIP-1271](https://ethereum.org/pt/developers/tutorials/eip-1271-smart-contract-signatures/#example-eip-1271-implementation-safe).    
```

> The message can be a string (EIP-191 is used to get the hash) or an object EIP-712.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The message can be a string (EIP-191 is used to get the hash) or an object EIP-712.
```

**Messages endpoints**

> - `GET /v1/safes/{address}/messages/` return the messages created for given safe address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `GET /v1/safes/{address}/messages/`: Return the messages created for the given Safe address.
```

> - `POST /v1/safes/{address}/messages/` create a message with at least one signature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `POST /v1/safes/{address}/messages/`: Create a message with at least one signature.
```

> - `GET /v1/messages/{message_hash}/`  return a message for a given message hash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `GET /v1/messages/{message_hash}/`: Return a message for a given message hash.
```

> - `POST /v1/messages/{message_hash}/signatures/` add another signature to message with given message hash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `POST /v1/messages/{message_hash}/signatures/`: Add another signature to the message with the given message hash.
```

> The following sequence diagram shows an use case from a Safe shared by Alice and Bob where at least 1 signature for each one is required to fully confirm a message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sequence diagram shows a use case for a Safe shared by Alice and Bob where at least one signature for each one is required to confirm a message fully:
```

message_hash = defunct_hash_message(text=message)
# get message hash from safe
eth_client = EthereumClient("https://rpc.goerli.eth.gateway.fm")
safe_address = "TheAliceAndBobSafeAddress"
safe = Safe(safe_address, eth_client)
safe_message_hash = safe.get_message_hash(message_hash)

# Alice is going to create the message on safe transaction service
# First sign the safe_message_hash
signature_alice = alice.signHash(safe_message_hash)

# Create the request
body = {
    "message": message,
    "safeAppId": 0,
    "signature": signature_alice.signature.hex()
}
requests.post(f'https://safe-transaction-goerli.safe.global/api/v1/safes/{safe_address}/messages/',json=body)

# Message was created, let's request by message hash
response =  requests.get(f'https://safe-transaction-goerli.safe.global/api/v1/messages/{safe_message_hash.hex()}/')
print(response.json())

# Adding Bob confirmation
bob = Account.from_key("Bob_key")
signature_bob = bob.signHash(safe_message_hash)

# Create the request
body = {
    "signature": signature_bob.signature.hex()
}
requests.post(f'https://safe-transaction-goerli.safe.global/api/v1/messages/{safe_message_hash.hex()}/signatures/',json=body)

```

> ## Transactions decode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Transaction Decoder
```

> Safe transaction service is able to decode contract interactions, to achive it, the service is periodically getting source and ABI's from different sources (Sourcify, etherscan and blockscout) using the `safe-eth-py` library.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Safe transaction service can decode contract interactions. To achieve it, the service periodically gets source and ABIs from different sources like Sourcify, etherscan, and blockscout using the `safe-eth-py` library.   
```

> The detection of contract interactions is done in a periodic task that is executed every hour for `multisig-transaction` and `module-transactions` or every 6 hours for `multisend-transactions` on `worker-contracts-tokens`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The detection of contract interactions is done in a periodic task executed every hour for `multisig-transaction` and `module-transactions` or every six hours for `multisend-transactions` on `worker-contracts-tokens`.
```

> For every new contract the service try to download the source and the ABI requesting it first to `soucify`, then `etherscan` and as last chance `blockscout`. It's important to know that not all this datasources are supported or configured for every network on `safe-eth-py`.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For every new contract, the service tries to download the source, and the ABI requests it first to Sourcify, then Etherscan, and as a last chance, Blockscout. It's important to know that not all these data sources are supported or configured for every network on `safe-eth-py`.   
```
